---
title: Software Design/Engineering
layout: default
---

<p class="col-md-10 col-md-offset-1">Throughout all of the software design and engineering classes that I have taken, I have learned how to write modular software using Java, the proper way to design software, as well as how to design software using UML diagrams. We also learned about some of the major design patterns that are used in software, and how to use them. Those classes also involved a lot of group work where we created software in a real life setting, which, in one case, was using a version of the agile development process. One of the most important things that we learned was how to work effectively in a group as well as how to deal with problems that occur in the group during the development process. In the software design and engineering classes we had three major projects.</p>

<p class="col-md-10 col-md-offset-1">The first project that we worked on in a group was creating a basic flight booking android app, where we learned how to develop an app from scratch using the best design principles and practices. Unfortunately, I do not have permission to share the app or the code, but the basic idea was an app that would allow users to book flights. Since this was an introductory course the app was not connected to the internet and only used artificial data.  The main challenge for this project was learning how to work effectively in a group to produce a working product.</p>

<p class="col-md-10 col-md-offset-1">The next project that we worked on in a group was creating a plugin for <a href="https://www.zotero.org/">Zotero</a>, an open source bibliography management tool. For this project we had a client (another professor at the university) who wanted us to add some additional features, so, using a form of the agile development process, we produced a plugin for the application. Our repository for that project can be found on <a href="https://github.com/joshuagreenslade/CSCC01-project">github</a>. One of the main challenges in this class was learning how to work with a real client to figure out what they really wanted. Another one of the challenges was trying to understand what the existing code Zotero code did in order for us to figure out how to add the additional features to it.</p>

<p class="col-md-10 col-md-offset-1">For the final group project, we worked on contributing to <a href="https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib">Matpolotlib</a>, an open source plotting software. Our task was to find some bugs and fix them, unfortunately for the bugs that we fixed, someone else made a pull request so we were not able to have our contribution merged into the codebase. Our repository for the project can be found on <a href="https://github.com/joshuagreenslade/CSCD01">github</a>. The main challenge we had was trying to get a general understanding of the huge codebase so that we could fix our bugs and make a contribution. This helped us learn how to be able to figure out how a large piece of software works without reading every line of code.</p>

<p class="col-md-10 col-md-offset-1">Overall, after completing these classes and working on these projects, I have learned how to effectively work in a team situation and how to deal with problems if they arise within the team. I have also learned strategies that help to understand large codebases as well as how to write good modular code that allows for easy maintenance and that is easy to understand for other developers who may be using my code, as well for as myself.</p>